---
layout: post
title: Pre Security Learning path Try Hack Me
date: 2021-07-06 20:20:20 +0000
last_modified_at: 2021-07-06 20:20:20 +0000
category: Walkthrough
tags: ["Try Hack Me", Learning path, Contest, Web]
comments: true
image:
  feature: PreSec/16x9_Large_lwhe6w.jpg
  credit: Rawpixel.com / Shutterstock © 2018
  creditlink: https://rawpixel.com
---

This post documents the new learning path on TryHackMe(THM) Pre security, A [learning path][1] created and hosted at [Try Hack Me][2]. If you are uncomfortable with spoilers, please stop reading now.
{: .notice}

<!--more-->

## On this post
{:.no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}

## Background
{% include image.html image_alt="PreSec/PreSec1_nvznch.png" image_src="PreSec/PreSec1_nvznch.png" %}

Pre Security Path is all about learning the building blocks for anyone wanting to learn Cyber Security but may not have years of knowledge. Currently, if you complete rooms before the 15th of July 2021 you can earn tickets for various prizes from stickers to OSCP vouchers.

## The Basics
The path is broken down into five fundamentals each containing several rooms to practice and learn skills that every cybersecurity user will need.

{% include image.html image_alt="PreSec/presec2_ktgskg.png" image_src="PreSec/presec2_ktgskg.png" %}

## Cyber Security Introduction
This section is a quick overview of the path and has some interactive demos to show you what is involved with websites through a social media website.

## Network Fundamentals
This section shows users the OSI model and goes into detail about each layer within the model. Users will come out of knowing more about how a basic network works as well as how a packet is sent and what information it contains. This section also contains some pretty cool demos that show you the pros and cons of different network setups and lets users see how those systems fall apart. 

{% include image.html image_alt="PreSec/PreSec3_a4ckfr.png" image_src="PreSec/PreSec3_a4ckfr.png" %}

## How The Web Works
This section goes into details about how websites work. First, you learn about DNS and HTTP and put them together to learn about how websites use all of this information to work. This section was in my opinion the most important section. When I was learning cybersecurity this information would have been greatly valuable to have before starting. Understanding how POST/GET requests work and why in today's world where most things are website applications should prove invaluable to those just starting out

{% include image.html image_alt="PreSec/PreSec4_nrkn0x.png" image_src="PreSec/PreSec4_nrkn0x.png" %}

## Linux Fundamentals
This section goes through and teaches users the basic Linux skills they will need to quickly navigate a Kali-like system. This is important as anyone who is looking at cybersecurity from a hands-on point of view will need these skills. I think most users who have some Linux skills will flow through this section super quickly. The new users who have not seen a Linux box at all will gain lots of information on how to do basic commands so they can quickly move around the system.

{% include image.html image_alt="PreSec/PreSec5_gymifi.png" image_src="PreSec/PreSec5_gymifi.png" %}

## Windows Fundamentals
This section like the previous section teaches users basic skills when it comes to Windows OS. As most users and targets are using windows having this section shows users the basics about setting and file types within windows. It should build a solid foundation on how windows are set up and allow them to see how services are run.

{% include image.html image_alt="PreSec/PreSec6_wvp4ye.png" image_src="PreSec/PreSec6_wvp4ye.png" %}

## Final Thoughts

Overall, I think this path is a fantastic way to get people who have limited or no skills in cybersecurity some basic fundamental knowledge. The course is designed in a great way with some really good hands-on demos to show how things work. I think the combination of reading, and demos should create a solid base for any newcomers to cybersecurity. I also think the rewards they currently are offering for anyone who completes it in the next ten days is a great way to get people to try it out and see if this something they would like to pursue. Overall I would give it an 8/10 as the only thing that is lacking is they don't go into any hacking fundamentals which could help bolster the course a bit more.
Finally, if you do complete this path you will be awarded a certificate of completion

{% include image.html image_alt="PreSec/THM-4ZZRBWI5OF_tpfaak.png" image_src="PreSec/THM-4ZZRBWI5OF_tpfaak.png" %}
:dancer:

[1]: https://tryhackme.com/path/outline/presecurity
[2]: https://tryhackme.com
